# Writing sigh plugins

The easier way to write sigh-plugins is using the yeoman "sigh-plugin" generator. First install the yeoman cli, the yeoman generator and sigh-cli:
```
sudo npm install -g yo generator-sigh-plugin
```

Then create a directory for your plugin and change to it:
```
mkdir sigh-plugin
cd sigh-plugin
```

Then run the generator:
```
yo sigh-plugin
```

This will ask you questions:
```
sigh plugin generator
? What is the name of this plugin? test
? Which github username/organisation should own this plugin? sighjs
? What's your github author? Your Name <name@email.net>
? Which of the following apply to your plugin? (Press <space> to select)
❯◯ Maps input files to output files 1:1
? Which features would you like to use? (Press <space> to select)
❯◉ CircleCI integration
 ◯ TravisCI integration
? Which dependencies do you need? (Press <space> to select)
❯◉ bluebird
 ◉ lodash
 ◉ sigh-core
```

It will then generate you scaffold for a plugin in the current directory according to the answers you give.

To begin developing run:

```
sigh -w
```

You can add the `-v` or `-vv` flags for more information. Everytime you change a source file the plugin will be recompiled and tested.

This is an example plugin:
```javascript
// this plugin adds a redundant variable statement at the end of each javascript file
module.exports = function(operation, text) {
  // do whatever you want with the stream here, see https://baconjs.github.io/
  return operation.stream.map(function(events) {
    return events.map(function(event) {
      if (event.type !== 'remove' && event.fileType === 'js')
        event.data += '\nvar variable = "' + (text || "stuff") + '"'
      // you should make sure to call "event.applySourceMap" usually with
      // source maps generated by the current operation.
      return event
    })
  })
}
```
The first argument is used to pass information to the plugin, the subsequent arguments are passed from the arguments used within the `Sigh.js` file. The `operation` argument has the following fields:

 * `stream`: Bacon.js stream to adapt.
 * `treeIndex`: depth-first index of operator within pipeline tree. This can be written to in order to this to set the treeIndex for the next pipeline operation otherwise it is incremented by one.
 * `watch`: true if and only if the `-w` flag was used.
 * `environment`: environment being built (change with the `-e` or `--environment` flag).
 * `procPool`: A [ProcessPool](https://github.com/ohjames/process-pool) instance configured to limit the number of active processes accoring to the `-j` argument passed to sigh. This can be used to schedule work over multiple CPUs, see the [sigh-babel plugin](https://github.com/sighjs/sigh-babel/blob/master/src/index.js) for an example.
 * `compiler`: a pipeline compiler that can be used to compile any sub-trees, this is used in advanced plugins that take other pipelines as arguments.

The [sigh-core](https://github.com/sighjs/sigh-core) library also provides some functionality useful for writing plugins including access to the `Bacon` instance sigh uses.

Assuming the plugin above is called `suffixer` it could be used in a Sighfile like:
```javascript
module.exports = function(pipelines) {
  pipelines['js'] = [ glob('*.js'), suffixer('kittens'), write('build') ]
}
```

The stream payload is an array of event objects, each event object contains the following fields:
  * `type`: `add`, `change`, or `remove`
  * `path`: path to source file.
  * `sourceMap`: source map as javascript object, this is read-write but in most cases `applySourceMap` should be used instead of writing to this variable.
  * `data`: file content as string (plugins can modify this, if modified then applySourceMap should be called with a source map describing the modifications).
  * `sourceData`: original content before any transforms (read-only).
  * `fileType`: filename extension (read-only).
  * `basePath`: optional base directory containing resource.
  * `projectPath`: path with basePath stripped off.
  * `opTreeIndex`: depth-first index (within asset pipeline tree) of the source operator for this event.

The first array in the stream always contains an event of type `add` for every source file.

The following methods are available:
  * `applySourceMap(nextSourceMap)`: apply a new source map on top of the resource's existing source map.
  * `changeFileSuffix(targetSuffix)`: change the target suffix, e.g. from `scss` to `css`.

Plugins can also return a `Promise` to delay construction of the pipeline.

## Incremental rebuilds and plugins

Due to the way Sigh's event stream works processing never needs to be repeated, only work relating to the actual files changed is performed. In most cases caching isn't necessary, in the few cases where it is Sigh handles it transparently. Library code available to plugin writers makes it simple to handle caching in cases where it is necessary.

# Future updates to this document
* Document file coalescing, for now see the [concat plugin](https://github.com/sighjs/sigh/blob/master/src/plugin/concat.js) and [toFileSystemState](https://github.com/sighjs/sigh-core/blob/master/src/stream.js).
